to the United States military says it's
conducted more air strikes on houthi
missiles in Yemen the latest action
against the iran-backed group us Central
Command said it struck missiles which
were preparing to launch against ships
in the Red Sea the British prime
minister Rishi sunak said the joint air
strikes were in self-defense that houthi
attacks on shipping had put lives at
risk and were having Economic
Consequences this as America's top
Diplomat US Secretary of State Anthony
Lincoln embarks on his fifth trip to the
Middle East in the past 4 months tension
with Iran which supports the houthis are
rising and Washington has also accused
tyan of having its fingerprints on the
Drone attack that killed 3s US soldiers
at a military base in Jordan last week
the White House has warned that its
retaliatory air strikes on Iran link
Targets in Iraq and Syria are just the
beginning not the end of its response
Iran denies involvement but its
affiliate the Islamic resistance in Iraq
has claimed
responsibility so what is the US
Secretary of State hoping to achieve on
his Middle East Tour while an American
official says Anthony blinkin will push
for progress on a hostage deal that
includes a humanitarian pause he'll talk
to Arab Nations about what happens the
day after a deal is struck and we're
told Mr blinken plans to talk directly
to countries in the region about the
scope of us actions taken in retali
for the deaths of those US service
members last week well let's go live to
our Middle East correspondent Hugo Pacha
who is in Baghdad for us so uh Hugo a
busy agenda for Mr blink it is a bit of
a juggling act that he's got isn't
it exactly so you know the main goal of
his trip is to try to secure the release
of the hostages who remain in captivity
in Gaza more than a 100 hostages who
were kidnapped during the Hamas attack
attacks in Israel back in October and
the at the same time uh secure a pausing
hostilities in Gaza to Guaranty the
delivery of humanitarian Aid to the
Palestinian uh population of Gaza but at
the same time we're seen that you know
the Americans are heavily involved in
what is happening elsewhere in the
region we've seen that there have been
more American air strikes targeting the
houthis in Yemen the Americans are
saying that this is about uh
guaranteeing a freedom of navigation uh
in that uh region that this doesn't have
anything to do with the war in Gaza the
houthis are saying that these attacks
are going to continue that they are
acting uh in solidarity with the
Palestinians in Gaza and that uh these
attacks are going to continue unless
there is a ceasefire in Gaza so Gaza at
the very heart of what is happening in
Yemen and then uh the situation here in
Iraq and Syria uh American officials are
saying that the American response to
those attacks targeting uh us bases in
those countries uh have just begun and
uh more attacks are going to uh come in
the next uh few days we saw the first
wave of air strikes targeting Iranian
interests in Iraq and Syria on uh the
weekend and I think uh the focus now is
on Iran and its Proxes and how or if uh
they're going to respond so a very busy
agenda for Anthony blinkin as he returns
to the Middle East yeah I'm interested
you're in back out what has been the
government reaction there to those
retaliation strikes from the US on those
Targets in the Middle
East yeah I think people are still
waiting to see what is going to come
next because the Americans are saying
that this is just the beginning that
more air strikes are going to happen or
more steps are going to be taken to
Target those uh groups uh supported by
Iran uh groups that have been uh behind
uh you know attacks on us bases uh in
Iraq and Syria at least that's the
accusation being made by the Americans
uh but there was you know some strong
response from the Iraqi government
saying that those air strikes violated
uh the country's sovereignty now they're
making the case for negotiations to
happen for the end of the American
Military presence here uh in Iraq uh I
don't think anything is going to happen
anytime soon but again uh it shows how
tense how volatile the situation here uh
has been uh and again I think people are
waiting to see not only in terms of what
is going to happen uh in relation to
those uh American uh attacks but also
how or if uh Iran and its Proxes are
going to respond you Goa a Middle East
correspondent in Baghdad thank you for
joining us